[MUSIC]
Today we are going to get the Raspberry Pi
to send a tweet on Twitter or
update status on Twitter
which is the same thing.
So let's start out by
making our connection.
So I'm sitting at my windows machine,
that's what you see here.
Let me get my terminal emulator putty,
P-U-T-T-Y,
and connect it to my Raspberry Pi.
Here's the ip address at the moment.
See if I remember it I think that's it.
Okay, so I'm using Secure Shell.
To connect, click open.
So I get the prompt, Pi.
And give it the password.
[NOISE] Here we go.
Now let's change the size of the text,
just so
we can see a little bit better,
change settings,
go to appearance and
make it 20 point, sounds good.
All right,
now let's shrink the window a little bit
so I can get other things on the screen.
There we go, okay, so now we have
our connection to the Raspberry Pi.
So we want to use Twitter,
so first, we have to
use the Twython T W Y T H O N package
that I've already talked about in class.
So right now I'm going to assume that
you have already installed that package
using a pseudo app to get install.
So, do an update first and
then install the packet, install PIP and
then use PIP to do that.
We've done this before, but go ahead and
install the Twython packet, T-W-Y-T-H-O-N.
So I've already done that in my Raspberry
Pi and actually be forewarned a little
bit, it takes a long time, the upgrade
step took me over five minutes, say.
So go ahead and do that.
So once that's installed,
then I'm also assuming that you have
a Twitter account, and that's easy to get.
Just go to Twitter.com,
get an account for free.
and I'm assuming that you have
already registered your app.
So you go to apps.twitter.com and
you, actually I already outlined
this is the class in the lecture.
Just look at that lecture and follow
it step by step to register your app.
Now when you register your app, remember
you're going to get these four keys,
the consumer keys and the authentication
keys, jot these down somewhere.
You're going to need them in order to have
your application communicate with Twitter.
So, now that we have that,
let us go and start typing,
so we'll start Python and so
now I've got my Python prompt.
I'm doing this in command line, but you
could do it in a script if you wanted to.
So let's start off with the import and
from Twython,
from the Twython package, I'll just
import the Twython class in this.
Import.
That's all I need in
order to send a tweet.
So I'll import that.
Okay.
Now that I've imported that,
what I'm I'm going to want to do
is I'm going to make an object
of the Twython class.
Now, when I call the constructor for that,
I'll do that in a second but when I
call the constructor I need to pass in
four arguments which are the four keys
that we got when we registered our app.
So I don't want you to see my keys.
So in order to hide my keys, what I'm
going to do is I have actually made
a little script that just sets the keys,
CK = cs = at = as =.
I said define four variables and
I set them equal to the keys.
I've done that but I don't want you to see
exactly what the definition of the keys
are so what I'll do is I'll,
since I have that in a file,
I have those four assignment instructions
in a file that I will not show you but
they are very simple.
You, I'll just actually execute that file.
So there's a command to do that.
So I'll type Execfile.
So execfile will execute a Python script.
And I just give the file name in quotes.
So I've called that file "initkeys.py".
Bam, and it has initialized the keys.
Now, note that all that that does,
I hate to not have you see something, but
I don't want you to see the keys, but all
that does is it defines four variables.
c_k= and then it's the string,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I'm not going to override it,
but that's what I had in there.
So CK, CS, AT, AS,
I define all four of those.
So that's all, so you would type that
command line yourself, or cut and
paste it, but I just did that.
So by executing that file I've
actually assigned all four of those.
So now I need to make the object,
the Twython object, the API object.
So let's make API equals Twython, so
I'm calling the Twython constructor to
make the object and I pass in my keys.
They are called c_k, c_s,
a_t, and a_s.
Okay, so,
that should make my API my Twython object.
So, there it is.
So, now, I can send a tweet.
Now before I send the tweet, I'm going to
send the tweet, but I want you to see, I'm
going to show you Twitter at the same time
so you can see when the tweet arrives.
So now, I'll pop up my browser.
Now this is, when I log into Twitter,
type in my username and password,
this is what I get.
There's nothing much interesting in here.
I made this Twitter account just so
I could just for
the purposes of this class, so
I don't have a lot of tweets.
But you can see I have some silly tweets
in here just for testing purposes.
You see I have test, test2, and I scroll
down, hi world, testing, and so on.
So I did a few test tweets but
there's really not much going on in here.
But the point is that once I go
down to the bottom window, and
I update status, so I call update
status method to send the tweet,
it should appear in the browser on
the top, once I refresh it anyway.
So just as evidence that
it actually worked.
Okay, so let's go to the bottom window,
and send the tweet.
So api.update_status, there it is,
and then I give it a status.
Which is a string status equals I'll make
it string any string I want to send, so
let's say RPi is good.
Sounds great.
Exclamation there.
Okay, so we'll send that and bam.
Now there's a bunch of garbage that prints
on the screen but it sent that tweet.
Now if we look at my browser up top,
nothing has actually changed yet, but
it will as soon as I refresh, so
I'm going to click the refresh button and
I should have a new tweet on top.
There it is.
RPi is good.
It worked out.
You see it right there.
Evidence that it was successful,
and it was very easy.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]